>>REGINA MEREDITH:
Perhaps highest
on our list of stressors,
aside from a life-threatening
illness, is our
personal finances.
For this reason, I'm looking
at money from all directions.
Meanwhile, others are out
there creating solutions.
Today, we're speaking with
Michael Tellinger, who
has a big plan for the people
of his native country, South
Africa.
Unemployment there is
hovering around 40% to 50%
with little hope of a
return to good times.
Michael's plan would bring
prosperity and dignity back
to life in his homeland.
It's called Ubuntu.
And Michael, thank you
for joining us today.
This is a subject near and
dear to my heart as well.
>>MICHAEL TELLINGER: Oh yeah.
>>REGINA: The
stresses, and you've
been putting a lot
of thought into this.
But first of all,
I'd like for you
to make the link between
your previous discoveries
in the books you've
written, which
were about the inhabitation
of the South African lands
by species from another planet
that created a worker bee
species that became what
we know as the human being
for the purposes of mining gold.
Now, we talked about
that at great length
in another interview.
But how did that lead you
into the notion of Ubuntu?
And you're really putting
yourself on the line
because you're starting a new
political party in South Africa
by the same name.
>>TELLINGER: Yeah.
These things all
happen in a sequence
of events that sometimes
take you by surprise.
And I was taken
by surprise when I
started researching the
origins of humankind.
Who are we?
Where do we come from?
Why are we here as a species?
And reaching
startling conclusions
that suddenly are now becoming
more and more mainstream
theories and providing
the physical evidence
and scientific evidence for
who we are as a species.
But what struck me
is when you start
looking at the translations
of the Sumerian tablets
and the work that
Zecharia Sitchin has done
and pretty much all
other translations
that are available, the concept
and the subject of money
does not arise among
the so-called gods.
It only seems to appear
when humans enter the scene.
And it only seems to appear
when the control and the abuse
of humanity is at
stake or at question.
And I realized that for
probably the first 280,000
years of our existence as a
species, we did not have money.
We might have been a
lower consciousness level
species as we were evolving into
the state that we're in now,
growing and exploding
in consciousness.
But at the same time,
we didn't have money.
And we survived for much
longer periods of time
without the concept
of money than we
have had the use of money
in our known history
or our imagined history.
So the question begs, how
and why was money introduced?
How and why is money
used by the human race?
And the answers to that
are far more strange
than most people realize.
>>REGINA: Indeed.
And not only that, I mean, there
are certain theories out there
and certain people's
works, in fact,
that would even refer to
money almost as a virus that
has been injected into
our communal way of life,
our psyche, into our cultures.
>>TELLINGER: It's
very clear to me
now that the big separation,
the dividing line
in pre-human history and the
sort of history that we would
refer to today is the great
flood, the biblical flood.
That seems to be a really
important dividing line
in all of human history.
And it's only after
the flood, which
happened between 12,000
and 13,000 years ago,--
And that seems to
be an historic event
that most geologists and
historians and archaeologists
tend to agree upon with
very little squabbling.
It's only after the flood
that this magical thing
called money suddenly
pops its head up.
And it seems to coincide with
what Sumerian tablets refer
to as, and it's a recurring
Sumerian tablet translation, is
when kingdom was lowered
to earth from heaven.
And you find these translations
in several Sumerian tablets,
when the gods appointed kings
on earth and high priests
to rule over the people.
Part of that appointment,
after the flood,
was the introduction
of this thing called
money that was then
used to control
the humanity by the royal
bloodlines, which incidentally
we still have today.
Nothing has changed.
>>REGINA: That is true,
and the manipulation
of the human species through
the monetary systems.
And recently, I told you
off camera about this,
I interviewed a man named
Stephen Belgin as well
on the subject of money.
And what he was
talking about was
how the local localities,
local companies, a coal mining
company in one case, small towns
at various points in history,
dating back about 1,000 years
ago and forward to this time,
were creative enough to be able,
in hard times, when currencies
had gone down and people
had fallen into deprivation
and even depression, they
were able to organize and find
ways of pulling together and
very rapidly brang-- brought
their community back up into
a high state of function
again with prosperity.
And then, the
reason I bring it up
is because of what
you just said.
And then it would be
the king, who would--
>>TELLINGER: Stamp
his authority.
>>REGINA: --stamp his
authority and say, hey,
the monetary system
that exists currently,
we're feeling
threatened by this.
And then they would
outlaw the use
of whatever the
other complimentary
form of trade or currency was.
And this has
happened repeatedly.
>>TELLINGER: Yeah.
You know, the money thing is
a really fascinating subject
to talk about because we are so
lost and consumed with money.
We can't imagine a
world without money.
And this is what I
find so fascinating.
Is if you allow
yourself the freedom
to imagine a world without money
and how it will dramatically
change everything we do,
the way we think, the way we
behave towards each
other, the way we act,
what we choose to do in our
lives, how we build things,
how we live, how we
educate, how we heal,
how we use energy--
it affects everything
dramatically and profoundly.
It takes the entire
social structure
as we have as a species
and turns it on its head.
And at this point, I
need to, as I normally
do in my presentations, say how
did we get into this situation?
How did we get into this
mess that we face today?
Global economic collapse
is looming, is imminent.
Most, sort of,
levelheaded economists
are startled at the
fact that there is still
a global economy, that it hasn't
just collapsed or imploded
in some way.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>TELLINGER: How is
it still continuing?
Well, I think the answer to
that is relatively simple.
It's because the power that the
banking families and the royal
bloodlines that go back
thousands of years.
This is not something
that happened
100 years ago or 200 years ago.
This goes back
thousands of years
of control and manipulation
of the human race.
And money, at one point,
became the key tool
of control, absolute control.
And they're so powerful
that they can really
keep it propped up for
as long as they possibly
can until we, the people,
decide that's enough.
>>REGINA: And yet,
at the same time,
they keep it propped
up, yet scarce.
>>TELLINGER: Very scarce.
>>REGINA: Scarcity seems to
be really at the basis of this
because if you can't create a
fear of some kind surrounding
any given subject, especially
money, which relates
to our survival, our
sense of survival.
If you can't create fear--
Scarcity equals fear.
If you can't create fear,
you can't control people.
>>TELLINGER: Well, that's
what you opened up by saying,
one of the biggest stressors
we have is financial stress.
Well, why do we have
financial stress?
Why do we allow ourselves?
How do we get to this point?
And that's the beautiful story.
When the lights go on and
you realize what's going on,
you go, how could I have
been so stupid to buy
into that kind of system?
Because it's an absolute
control and manipulation
system, where a small number
of humans, individuals,
have taken on the
right to print money
and to create money out of
thin air, out of nothing
and make us, the
rest of humanity,
use that thing that they create.
And if we don't have it,
oh, you're in big trouble.
You're in big, big trouble.
You don't have any money?
Oh my goodness.
Now, you're going
to become a vagrant.
And you're going to
become a criminal.
From the moment we breathe
our first breath when
we are born to the moment
we breathe our last breath,
it's all about money.
And people that deny that
are just fooling themselves
until they wake
up and realize it.
We can do something about it.
It's up to us to do
something about that.
And I think the time has come.
>>REGINA: It has come.
Now, you're doing
something that's
really fascinating, which
we're going to get to.
Other people have actually
tried creating new currencies
and introducing new currencies.
Some of them have
ended up in jail,
as a result of their efforts.
You are not allowed to
create a new currency.
There are very
specific protocols.
Certain communities in the
United States, for example,
have successfully created
an alternative currency.
But still, you're getting
into very problematic areas.
But what you're talking
about does not necessarily
involve currencies.
>>TELLINGER: No.
I'm suggesting something
completely the opposite.
If money is the
tool of all problems
and the tool of
absolute control, which
we can show very quickly
that that's what it is,
then how do we escape
that absolute control?
By removing money
from the system.
And when you say that to people,
most people jump up and down
and go, how is it going to work?
How are we going
to pay for things?
Why should I do this or
why should I do that?
If there's no money,
what incentive is there?
You know, people are lazy.
They're not going
to do anything.
All those arguments
and notions are
based on the capitalistic
and consumeristic principles
that we have been brought up on.
We cannot imagine a world
without money where people
actually live out their lives
using the God-given talents
or they acquired
skills that they--
passions that they pursued
because of what it is they love
to do, and using that as their
contribution to their society.
And that brings us
to the key word here.
In Africa, it is an age old
tradition known as Ubuntu.
And I call it contributionism,
which is something
that I deduced out
of writing my book,
"Slave Species of God,"
realizing that money was
maliciously introduced
to the human race
as a tool of control,
and the way we overcome
that is the way that people
lived for hundreds of thousands
of years, without money.
How do people live
without money?
By contributing
towards the greater
good of their communities.
>>REGINA: So let's talk about
the African version of that.
What is the spirit of Ubuntu?
And how has that been
employed in Africa?
>>TELLINGER: Well, it's
an age old tradition,
not just in Africa, but
at all native populations
around the world.
They all seem to have
the same human motive.
And that is if it's not good for
everyone, it's no good at all.
And that's a beautiful,
simplistic point of view.
What I need to remind
your viewers of
is that when the colonialists
arrived in Africa,
there was no homelessness.
There was no hunger.
There was no unemployment.
There were tribes living
in absolute abundance.
And if the tribe went hungry,
then everybody went hungry.
You didn't have homeless people
within the tribes wandering
around.
It was a controlled system.
And Ubuntu is at the
foundation of this.
It's an ancient
African tradition.
But all native populations
have those same traditions.
It is the colonization that
started some 500 years ago
that, as we discussed in
the previous interview,
severed us from our ancestors.
And the atrocities that
the colonizers perpetrated
in all the different
parts of the world, that
severed the native people
from their ancestors,
brought in so-called
civilization
and bring in modernization
and technology.
They introduced money.
They introduced ownership
of land and things
that were really quite alien
because the ancient cultures
believed that the land
belonged to the divine.
We were just
inhabiting the land,
and you've got to use
the land with respect.
So these are some of the
fundamental principles
that I'm bringing back
through the philosophies
that I've been putting
together since 2005,
called contributionism
or Ubuntu.
And I really call it
Ubuntu contributionism
because it's a subtle twist on
the original Ubuntu principles
because we need to
keep moving forward
by utilizing the
best of the past.
>>REGINA: Before we get
into the mechanics of that--
And we have a huge discussion
ahead about education
because we really have to
start over as a species,
in terms of raising each
other, raising our children.
Where we are, as a result
of the Industrial Revolution
and technology, I'm sure that
there are many people listening
to this right now
thinking, but I
don't want to just
live close to the land.
I don't want to be
without my stuff
because we've learned to
acquire and desire stuff.
>>TELLINGER: We consume,
consume, consume.
>>REGINA: We cannot remember
what it was like to live
simply, where you have
shorter work days,
where you're with your
family, where you're with
your children, where
you help each other out.
Now, how does that part factor
in when you discuss this?
I mean, this has to
be a consideration
of a lot of people.
But I want my iPhone.
And so how does that--
>>TELLINGER: I think these are
very important considerations.
And we've compiled a set
of questions that I ask.
I've been through this thousands
and thousands of times.
>>REGINA: Well, maybe we
can get to those at the end.
>>TELLINGER: But I
think, just to put people
at ease, whatever you're
thinking right now, I virtually
can guarantee you I've
been asked those questions
thousands of times.
The answers to every possible
hurdle you might have come up
with in our capitalistic,
consumeristic perspective
is like, what's in it
for me, me, me, me.
I've answered most
of those questions.
What I've had to do is
look at society today.
What is it that we do?
How do we function?
And I've looked at all the
different areas of society,
whether it's education,
whether it's arts and culture,
whether it's science and
technology, whether it's food,
providing of food and
community, all those areas I've
had to look at and
figure out solutions.
How is this going to work
in a moneyless society?
Which it worked for
long periods of time.
But now, if we had to remove
money from the system,
how is it going to work?
And the answers are so
simple, so incredibly simple,
that when it hits you
is the most exciting,
mind-blowing moment
in your life,
that you'll remember that
moment forever and ever.
It's like this
huge concrete block
that's being lifted
off your chest when
you realize how
simple it all is.
>>REGINA: Oh, what a tease.
>>TELLINGER: And how
poisoned our minds
have become through the system
of capitalism and acquiring
of stuff.
And then eventually, we just
die and leave it behind.
And then what happens
to that stuff?
Somebody else is going to
acquire it from us and--
>>REGINA: Well, not
just stuff but stature.
It has come down
to that, really.
I mean, when we're looking at
how we educate our children,
for example, which we'll be
getting into, a lot of it
is, oh, you must go to college.
You must have a college--
Well, now we're starting to
see the failings in that.
We have hundreds of thousands
of college graduates who
are vying for jobs in
the service industry
to get a job as a
waiter or a busser
at a restaurant or anything.
>>TELLINGER: It's all
smoke and mirrors.
It's all deception.
>>REGINA: Yet we all
fell into this trap
because somehow to
have any status in life
where you could
acquire what you wanted
or position yourself or have
freedom, latitude, freedom
of movement even,
required a certain income.
A certain income required a
certain level of education.
And it started really infecting
the thinking all the way up
the chain to where you're not
making any organically sound
decisions anymore.
>>TELLINGER: It's the
hierarchical structure.
It's the hierarchical pyramid.
And unfortunately, in
hierarchical pyramid,
there's only one person
who can be at the top.
And the rest of the
people are going
to have to work for that
one person at the top
and grovel their way up.
And somebody's always going
to try and push the one guy
off the top so they
can be at the top.
So let's just quickly examine
the fundamentals of this
because it's important.
Some people might
say, well, what
are you guys talking about?
You're going around and around.
Well, why are we
in this position?
Why are we in this horribly
confusing state of our species
that most people
hate their lives?
Most people hate their lives.
They hate their jobs.
They hate their boss.
They hate waking
up in the morning,
catching a train or a plane, or
riding a bicycle in the rain,
in the snow, having to drive.
And then in third world
countries, it's harsh.
But everybody has their
own personal misery
that they have to deal with.
They are not doing
what they believe
their natural talents are.
They're not sharing
the energy that
comes from within with
the rest of the world.
They're doing something
else that they hate to do
and they're forced to do to
earn a few lousy bucks so
at the end of the month they
can buy some bread and milk
and pay for the electricity
that should be free.
But we're paying
through our noses
to get electricity and send
the children to school.
Otherwise, they're going
to struggle through life.
So it's this never-ending
cycle of chasing your tail
to earn a few bucks so
you can live and survive.
Well, why is that happening?
Every socio-political system
we've had as a species
has failed us.
It's failed us for
specific reasons.
We probably don't have
enough time to go into--
>>REGINA: To go into all of
them or any of them really.
>>TELLINGER: --that.
Yeah, exactly.
And I'm talking about
capitalism, communism,
socialism, fascism.
You call it whatever you want.
And sometimes
people get confused
when I talk about
contributionism.
It's another ism.
I don't really like the
fact that it's an ism.
But it's a nice ism because
it's completely and utterly
different from every
other ism we've had,
because every other ism
we've had as a species
was always based on
one thing, money.
Contributionism is a system
that works without money.
And the fundamentals
are really simple.
Some people still
believe that money
is a consequence of
natural evolution,
that we had barter and
trade, and then they
became promissory notes, and
then they became minted coins.
That is not true.
That's the lie.
And those are the deceptions
that we've been told and taught
so that we think it's
OK to have money.
Well, no, it's not
We don't need money.
Money does nothing.
People do everything.
People plant the seeds.
People grow the food.
People solve the
mathematical solutions.
People look after babies.
People develop the rockets
and the technology.
Money does nothing.
Money is the hurdle between
abundance and success
on all levels or failure.
So if we want
success in abundance
and have as much food and
abundance on all level,
whether it's food or
technology or rocket science
or whatever it is your
mind can conjure up,
the moment you remove
money from the system,
you open the floodgates
to absolute abundance
on every level.
>>REGINA: And essentially,
as soon as you
do that, a feeling
of equality starts
happening within the
hearts of individuals.
>>TELLINGER: And so it should.
>>REGINA: Yes, and it
should, absolutely.
That's our natural state.
>>TELLINGER: We're all
told, we're all born equal.
Well, for a millisecond
we're all equal.
Right?
And then that inequality
starts, and it just
gets worse and
worse until you die.
>>REGINA: Well, we're
all equal but different.
But you put a room of people
together, say example, men--
You put a room full
of men together.
You have someone who is
maybe earning half a million,
a million dollars
a year, someone
who owns their own
corporation, someone
else who is a heavyweight
in some sector.
And then you have someone
who maybe is struggling
to make ends meet,
and they're concerned
that they're going to have a
job next year for their family.
And on and on and on, you go
around this room of individuals
with a diverse kinds of
economic portfolios, as it were.
You can tell exactly
how, in the way
our culture is
structured today, you
can tell exactly how
each of those persons
feels about themselves.
>>TELLINGER: Exactly.
>>REGINA: And that
it's so directly
linked to money, the
self-esteem, the fear,
the sense of self-worth.
>>TELLINGER: And it's all--
Look, unfortunately,
this is the situation.
No matter how you argue it.
You can argue in favor
of money, that it's
an exchange of energy.
And it's not money.
It's the love of money
that causes the problems.
You know what, I've been
through this thousands
and thousands of times.
No, no, no, no on every level.
It is money that is the problem.
It's the money that
causes all the problems,
money that's responsible for
the gluttony and the greed
and the hoarding and the
ugliness and the seven
deadly sins.
>>REGINA: Competition.
>>TELLINGER: Competition.
The hierarchial
structure system.
So let's get to the good news.
The good news is that you
can solve all these problems,
because we can harp
on the negative,
but let's provide your
viewers with a solution.
And the solution
is really simple.
Get rid of money.
As horrific as it may seem
for the next few seconds
or few minutes or few
weeks for some people--
Because some people
get it instantly.
Some people take a
little while to get it.
And some people really
struggle with it
because they really grounded in
the capitalistic, consumeristic
society that we've
become of me, me, me.
What's in it for me?
>>REGINA: So we need
a make believe world
that we're creating
verbally right now,
a world without money.
You can be safe because, for the
moment, it's just theoretical.
>>TELLINGER: It's
just theoretical.
But allow yourself to expand
your mind and think about this.
And remember that quantum
physics and the metaphysics
and the beautiful
beings of light
out there teaching us that
we can manifest things
with our mind, the laws of
attraction, all these things.
So if we project a beautiful
world of unity consciousness,
where everybody shares and
everybody contributes what
their passion is towards their
society and their community,
there'll be an abundance of
all for everyone at all times.
That is really the
utopian structure of this.
And I also just need to
just throw this in there,
because some people,
as we said earlier,
believe that money is the
consequence of barter and trade
and all that.
That's not the case.
And that is why the
contributionist Ubuntu system
has no barter, no trade, no
value attached to anything,
greater or lesser, because
in the Ubuntu communities
everyone is equally valued.
Your time and your
effort and energy,
what you do for
your community is
valued as much as anybody else.
>>REGINA: And this is a
really important part.
Every person and with the skill
that they bring to the table
is an important part
of an entire system.
>>TELLINGER: So in a nutshell,
the definition of an Ubuntu
contributionist society that
functions without money--
And we need to
get into how we're
going to get there because
that's always a big question.
--the fundamental
structures are--
And if you need
to, if you come up
against problems in your mind,
how are we going to do this?
How is that going to work?
Just repeat the mantra, the
five-pointed mantra, right,
the five-factor mantra.
--no money, no barter,
no trade, no value
attached to anything
greater or lesser
than anyone else's value,
where everybody contributes
their natural talents, God-given
skills, God-given talents
or acquired skills
for the greater
benefit of all in
their community.
Those are the five points.
>>REGINA: And you're
going to be doing this.
You're looking to do this
as a model in your hometown,
as a matter of fact.
And we're going to
take a short break.
But when we get
back, I want to know
exactly what this looks
like functionally.
>>TELLINGER: Great.
>>REGINA: We'll be right back.
>>REGINA: OK.
We're back.
And we left off at
a really juicy place
because we're going to be
talking about what that looks
like in a real functional model.
Because this is something you
want to bring to your hometown,
which I cannot pronounce
in South Africa.
And so let's begin.
This is a small town
with natural resources.
Right?
>>TELLINGER: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Basic
natural resources,
not extraordinary
natural resources.
>>TELLINGER: No.
Basic natural resources.
And I think it's also important
to recognize that this is not
going to be a smooth
transition from a capitalistic,
consumeristic society
way of thinking to living
without money in
abundance for all.
But abundance for all
is where we're heading,
and that is, for me, the
beautiful image that I've
absolutely, permanently
imprinted in my mind
are these communities that
just function seamlessly
and effortlessly, developing
everything and anything
that that community needs
because that's what they do.
>>REGINA: So let's talk
about your community.
What does your community have?
How would this start?
>>TELLINGER: Well, I
think every little town
can use this as a little model.
Whether it's a small
town or a small village,
you've got to start with the
basic necessities: food, water,
housing, shelter, health care,
education-- the fundamentals
that every society
and community needs.
So let's start with the food.
The food and water is
the most important thing.
So farmers will play a key
role in the transition phase
into moneyless societies
because once a community's got
enough food and
water, they can start
thinking about everything else.
They don't have to
worry about, where
am I going to earn enough
money to buy some food?
>>REGINA: Right.
You have your basic
survival needs.
>>TELLINGER: And if the
community looks after each
other with food, and you
have the people within that
community that are really the
good cooks and the chefs--
I'm really simplifying it now.
--that provide the food,
that cook the food so
that the whole
community can eat,
and now you've got some
serious solutions to,
especially in
Africa, where you've
got a lot of homelessness, a
lot of hunger because there's
no jobs, and people spend all
their time and energy to earn
a few bucks,
whether it's begging
or whether it's coming to
you for a job every day
so they can earn a
few rands or dollars
so they can go buy some food.
Well, if they spend that time on
community projects, developing
food, everybody can have
food in that community.
So let's backtrack a little bit.
The most important thing that
these communities need to do,
the small towns,
is start working
with the farmers
around the areas,
and whether it's growing food
or dairy farms or chickens
and eggs, and then
extending that into things
like converting the sewage
plants into free energy,
methane gas, and
using the rivers
and solar to generate
energy so you
can get the town or the
village off the grid.
Once you don't have
to pay electricity
for the electricity
providing companies
and you supply
yourself with energy,
you've got enough milk,
bread, butter, cheese, eggs.
You've got gas coming
from the sewage plant.
Suddenly you're looking at
a whole different community.
Suddenly there's more time.
Everyone's getting fed.
Everyone's got the
basic necessities.
And you start using the natural
resources as well for building
materials, and using
natural building techniques
to build houses that are
far more eco-friendly.
>>REGINA: More
insulated for example.
>>TELLINGER: Yes.
You look at houses that
are 2,000 years old
built in the Near East,
and they're standing.
You look at a house that's 100
years old standing around here,
they're broken down.
>>REGINA: It takes
a fire all around.
>>TELLINGER: And so
imagine if you've
got this little community
that get together.
They decide, right, this
is what we're going to do.
We're going to look
after ourselves
in all these obvious areas--
energy, food, water, shelter,
housing-- and then
use that as a base
to expand that to other areas.
So very shortly, you're going
to have a community that's
going to be living virtually
free because they're paying
very little for energy
and electricity.--
>>REGINA: They're using
their natural resources.
>>TELLINGER: Yeah.
They've got bread
and milk and butter
that they make available for all
the people in their community
because they're
contributing to making it.
And you know how much you can
make, how much milk and stuff
you can generate with
very little effort
if you really apply yourself.
So now, suddenly everyone's got
everything in that community.
What's the next
step that happens.
The next step is now, OK,
you've got too much stuff,
because that's what happens
when you do what you love to do
and if you're looking
after each other.
You've got too much stuff.
So you're going to
start making the stuff
available to the
communities around you
at a fraction of the
price that they're
buying it at the supermarket.
So all the
communities around you
are going to start coming to
you to buy their milk and bread
and butter and all the stuff.
What's going to happen to
their own communities is
they're going to say, hold on.
We can't survive doing
the business the way
we used to because all
the people from our town
are getting their stuff
from the neighboring town.
So that's going to force them
to take on the same model
and looking after each
other so they can also
live virtually free
and creating abundance
of the basic necessities.
Now, you've got the people that
have got all this extra time.
Now, they can start looking
at beautifying the town
and building free energy
devices and developing
the civil engineering, solving
solutions with sewage problems
and developing arts and
recreational facilities.
And that's the spark that
gets this thing going
to every level of society.
Shoemakers are making
beautiful shoes.
Suddenly everybody
wants to come and get
the shoes from this guy.
And where does he
get the leather from?
Well, from the guys that
are running the farms that
providing the meat and the
cows and all that stuff.
So you start seeing how this
integrated structure can
happen very, very quickly
in the small towns
and create the
domino effect that
get all the other small towns
to respond the same way.
Once that happens, I think
it's a runaway train.
>>REGINA: Yes, OK.
Now, let me ask you,
devil's advocate.
If anybody out there is
thinking, but, wait a minute.
We always hear these
tales of our grandparents,
who worked the land and
that they worked from sunup
to sundown trying to make
a profit from the land.
Now, where is it--
>>TELLINGER: The
key word was profit.
>>REGINA: The key
word was profit.
Exactly.
>>TELLINGER: You see, profit.
You take profit out of
it, it changes everything.
>>REGINA: Because they're
making huge amounts.
I mean, obviously
they're producing food
to feed a lot of
other individuals.
And that's the way they
would make a profit.
So where in this model
would you say, no,
this is not idealistic.
What you're talking
about is not idealistic.
You don't have to work your
little heiny off from sunup
to sundown.
>>TELLINGER: Yeah.
So I always tell people--
And obviously, this
is a long discussion
because this isn't something
that I put together
over the last few weeks.
This has taken me many
years to put together.
And going through
every aspect of it
and realizing, as I mentioned
earlier, how simple it is.
Once you break through some of
the real barriers that we have,
you realize how simple it is.
Some people call
it utopian dreams.
And I say no, no, no.
It's not utopian dreams.
It's the natural
order of things.
It's the way that nature works.
We're just following the
natural order of things,
and for that reason it's
virtually infallible.
It's a self-correcting system.
And if you allow it to work,
utilizing the natural order
of things--
And again, there are
many other things
that I need to throw into the
pot to explain what I'm saying.
It's a self-correcting system.
Every problem area
within that community,
the Ubuntu
contributionist community
that runs without
money, corrects itself
because you always ask
the questions, well,
how does it benefit all the
people in the community?
If it doesn't benefit the
people in the community,
then it's not necessary
for the community.
We can have it.
We can use it.
But then it's not part of
the fundamental structure
that the community works toward.
It is an add-on.
And there's nothing
wrong with add-ons.
What happens with add-ons--
And now, I'm getting into the
really exciting part of it.
--what happens, now you were
living in this community.
You wake up in the morning
with a smile on your face
because what you go and
do is what you love to do.
>>REGINA: And this
dynamic itself
changes the entire
equation because you're
taking fully participatory
human creativity and energy.
You don't even need discipline.
Discipline doesn't
exist when people
are doing what they love to do.
It doesn't require discipline.
>>TELLINGER: And
you're not doing it
because you're
earning money for it.
You're doing it because
you love to do it.
And you choose to do
it for your community.
Again, there's a
process of how you
get appointed to do
that by your community.
And the fact that the community
has allowed you or chosen
you to do what that is.
Whether you're a
shoemaker, a glass blower,
or a farmer or a
rocket scientist,
depending on what
community you live in,
or a teacher or whatever--
Master teachers, but that's
a whole separate subject
altogether.
Teaching changes dramatically.
--and so you wake
up in the morning.
And you might just be the
chemical engineer that's
waking up, and you've
just figured out
how you're going to solve
the problem of sewage.
Right?
And I'm using this
as a wild card idea.
So you're going to be
so excited about this,
you're going to run off to your
work or what it is you do--
You're no longer working.
You're following
your labor of love.
So jobs and work
are words that are
going to disappear
because now it's
a labor of love, an
LOL, which you're
going to do with a
smile on your face,
laughing out loud
while you're working.
>>REGINA: And people have
forgotten what they love.
>>TELLINGER: Yes.
So there's no bad energy.
Whatever it is
you're doing, you're
putting all your good energy.
Whether it's baking
bread, can you
imagine how much good energy
is in the bread that'll
come out of the bakeries?
And how much love is going to
be in the cheese and the butter
and the woodwork factories?
>>REGINA: You can
already experience
that in places that
operate off this principle.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And remember,
everything is energy.
If you hate your job, and
you do whatever it is,
and you do it because you're
going to earn some lousy bucks,
and you hate it,
you hate your boss,
you hate the whole process,
that's a recipe for disaster.
If everybody does
this, let's quickly
look at what happens today.
90% of the time that people
spend during their day
is chasing money.
If you backtrack
and you analyze what
it is that I've
done today, you'll
realize that most of the
things you do, 90% of the time,
is actions that you've
taken to chase money
so that at the end of the
day you've earned some money.
Now, if you're not
doing that, now you're
spending 90% of
your time on things
you love to do for
your community that
benefits your community
and, therefore, benefits you
personally.
What happens?
If everybody does
that, that now it
means that you're
living in a community.
You're not sitting in traffic.
OK.
You live where you work, where
you do what you love to do.
So now people can
live out of the cities
in the small little
villages that they
have a country cottage in.
That they're working all
week so they can get away
for the weekend to go and
spend a few lousy hours
in their country cottage.
Now, they can stay
there forever.
So what happens when you wake up
and you do your labor of love?
You can only do it
for a few hours a day.
And I use three
hours as an example
because it's the Holy
Trinity, and I like that.
Right.
So three hours, the
holy trinity of time
that you spend
every day doing what
you love for your community.
If you do any more
than that, there'll
just be too much stuff.
There'll be too much food, too
much water, too much rocket
science, too much free energy.
If everybody spends 90%
of their day doing that,
it's just too much stuff.
So you've got to ease off.
Take the foot off the gas.
Right?
Slow down.
Otherwise, we're going
to have too much stuff.
And that applies on
every level of society
if you start to analyze what
we're talking about here.
What happens next?
Well, you're going to
finish what you love doing,
and then you've got
all this time left.
So you're going to do something
else that you love to do.
And that's the beauty
about our humanness.
We have many hobbies,
many loves, many passions.
And you can follow
another passion,
whether it's movie-making
or sculpturing.
And in this lies the
example of the other stuff.
Right.
So now you go home, and you
start doing your sculptures.
But you're not doing--
>>REGINA: Now, you have
secondary industries.
And that's where the world
of art starts coming in.
>>TELLINGER: But I'm using
this because often arts
is a questionable thing.
Well, why would the community
want you to just sit at home
and make statues?
You know, you're not
really benefiting anybody.
Well, I'll show you.
Again, once you work
through this process,
you will always get the answers.
And every one of your viewers
will find the answers.
Repeat the mantra, the
five-pointed mantra, no money,
no barter, no trade, no
value greater or lesser
attached to anything,
and that everybody
contributes their God-given
talents or their acquired
skills to the greater benefit
of all in their community.
The answers are so simple.
So just to quickly explain this.
So you finished your
working in the dairy,
because you love to make cheese.
Right.
Now, you come home, or you
go to the communal area,
where you study under
the master sculptor.
And you start making
beautiful sculptures.
And within the six
months, there's
such a demand for your
sculptures by the community,
because remember they're coming
to get it from you for free.
You're not selling it to them.
People come and get it from
you because that's what you do.
So suddenly the community
comes to the counsel of elders.
And this is where we talk about
it's not a lawless society.
It's a very cohesively
structured society.
And it's based on what I
call the council of elders,
the 12 around 1, the
Christic principles,
the Christ consciousness
principles, the 12
disciples around
Christ, because that
is the perfect number
in sacred geometry
to have as your
decision-making council
And they're the
council of elders
that, on a daily basis
and an hourly basis,
decide what's best
for the community.
It is such a simple thing.
So a bunch of you will run
off to the council of elders
and say, listen, Regina's
statues are so fantastic,
and she doesn't have enough
time to make statues.
We want Regina to be appointed
as the official sculptor
for our town.
And the council of elders
will go, oh my goodness,
you're right.
Regina's sculptures
are everywhere.
>>REGINA: She's
done baking bread.
>>TELLINGER: Regina,
it's your choice.
Would you like to become the
officially appointed sculptor
for our town?
You don't have to
bake bread anymore.
And you'll say, well,
I love baking bread,
but you know what, I
prefer making statues,
and if you'll allow
me to do that--
So what happens,
the community will
bestow the honor of doing what
it is you do for the community.
>>REGINA: And what's interesting
about this is once the survival
needs are taken care
of, once the fear leaves
the cells of our body, which
most people don't know what
that feels like anymore
to truly be without fear,
and once that happens, our whole
psyche and internal landscape
shifts.
And beauty and
these other esoteric
and finer aspects
of life actually
start coming into
a place of not only
that we're able to
see them, but truly
being of a value
and appreciation.
>>TELLINGER: That's the
thing, the appreciation.
There is no better reward
than the appreciation
of others and the
recognition by others
for what it is that you are
doing for your community.
No amount of money
could ever even
begin to compare with that.
And this is, I believe, why
people have become incredibly
wealthy, and they realize
that money can't buy you love,
money can't buy you happiness,
they start giving it away.
Because once they
start giving it away,
they start to feel
the love of others
because it increases
the plight of others.
It helps them out of
areas of desperate needs.
And suddenly they start to feel
a different kind of energy,
and that changes people.
And within there is
an interesting mix.
And I think that, as we
move from the capitalistic
and the consumeristic societies
the ego-driven me, me,
me service to self, and changing
that into service to others--
>>REGINA: Totally different
internal landscape.
>>TELLINGER: --people with
huge amounts of money,
I believe, will start
crawling out of the woodwork
and say, hold on.
That's what I'm going to
do with all this wealth
that I've acquired.
Otherwise, what the hell
am I living this life for?
>>REGINA: Even Darwin, in
his lesser known works,--
Everybody made a big deal out
of the competition and survival
of the fittest, which is really
only mentioned a few times.
--the greater part
of his work actually
was extolling the
virtues of cooperation.
Our survival is through
cooperation not competition.
And we have somehow
been convinced
that the other is true, keeping
us in this horrible state.
And that competition
doesn't happen just
between individuals.
It happens internally.
We're in internal
conflict ourselves.
And so what you're talking
about, imagining this world,
is where we're making
our contribution,
but someone else
is contributing.
It's coming up behind you
and flowing through you
in all directions.
There is nothing to fear
when you're all creating this
together.
>>TELLINGER: It's so beautiful.
Because what you did you touched
so many important nerve endings
and fundamentals
of contributionism.
First of all, the fact
that it's a united effort.
It's unity consciousness.
So I really believe
that it's only
through higher
consciousness levels
and as we grow into
the consciousness
that we start realizing that
that's the only way ahead.
It's the only way ahead.
It's a system for beings
of higher consciousness.
And secondly, the competition
thing is so absolutely crucial.
Competition, we talked.
Competition.
And it's no.
You want cooperation.
So there's another beautiful
example that I have for people
that say, well, you know--
And I use the thing
of shoes, right,
which is a beautiful example.
And I didn't realize how huge
the global shoemaking industry
is as far as master shoemakers.
It's a huge global thing.
Master shoemakers are
revered worldwide,
and the average person on
the street doesn't know this.
So I'm a shoemaker
in my little town.
And there's an athlete in
the most advanced sporting
facilities because that's what
the community has done, right.
They've built the most advanced
sporting cultural systems.
And I've made this amazing
pair of running shoes for John.
And John has just broken the
world record in the hundred
meter sprint, using
my running shoes.
Now suddenly, all the other
runners around the world
want John's running shoes.
So what do they do?
They contact John.
They say, where did you
get your shoes from?
He says, I got
them from Michael.
They contact me and say, can
we have the model for the shoes
that you made for John?
And I say, sure.
Here it is.
Upload it on the free
internet system that
is a 3D holographic
system because remember,
money no longer keeps
technological advancement down.
So the technology explodes.
And I share that
technology of how
I made these shoes
with every shoemaker
in the world in a few seconds.
>>REGINA: I love it.
But this has to start
with a fundamental shift
in our thinking.
And now, I think everybody
watching this is certainly
starting to feel
the possibilities.
Gee, just imagine
if I didn't have
to go to work tomorrow
at that horrible job
that I absolutely hate.
We can start feeling this.
But in fact, it's going
to have to start also
with a new generation
of people, meaning
we have to educate our
children differently.
The system we're in
creates these little--
I hate to say it.
--but it creates
really a droid species.
They've taken
everything beautiful out
of most of the public
education systems.
The arts are gone.
Even a lot of the sports and
physical movement is gone.
It's down to teaching
for the next test.
And a lot of children,
who are very creative,
have extreme test anxiety.
It's horrible.
The education
system is horrible.
Tell us your model of how that
would work because you wouldn't
have schools as
we have them now.
>>TELLINGER: What you just
described is not education.
It's indoctrination.
>>REGINA: It is.
>>TELLINGER: That's what it is.
And true education is
coming into knowledge,
learning, knowing how to do
things, how to solve problems,
learning how things work,
learning about nature.
And the first
principles of education
would be, in a
contributionist system,
is taking the young children
at the earliest of ages,
probably between the ages
of four, five, and six,
and the first
fundamental principles
is teaching them
the love for Mother
Earth, the love for Gaia.
Once they have the love for
Gaia and they understand
some of the fundamentals of
how water and soil works, how
to grow seeds, and some of the
real basics, nature, earth,
natural environment,
they will never
hurt our mother,
Mother Earth, Gaia.
And that's, for me, the
fundamental starting point.
From there, you're
growing conscious beings
that will always be
responsible and feel
responsible for what
it is that they do.
Now, the education system
is really, really important
because it lies at
the foundation of how
the future civilizations
are going to act and behave.
And this is why this
system is so beautiful.
Remember, I said it's a
self-correcting system?
And before we talk about how
the education system will work--
Well, let's talk about that.
Sorry.
Because otherwise,
I'm jumping around.
So there are no classrooms.
Forget it.
There are master teachers.
Who are master teachers?
Master teachers can
only be a master teacher
if they were appointed
by the community
to be a master teacher.
Whether you're a shoemaker,
a baker, a farmer, a rocket
scientist, whatever
it is that you do,
a sculptor, right,
only the community
can say Regina is
a master sculptor.
We've appointed her as such.
And then the children
will come to you
to learn a process as they grow.
After they've learned
the love for Gaia,
they go through a sequence
of workshops and internships,
little mini internships--
>>REGINA: Now, are these
based on their own loves,
their own intrigues
and curiosities?
>>TELLINGER: It starts off with
basic needs of community, which
is food, water, shelter, health,
the basic needs of community.
So the children will be
introduced from a young age
into one day.
So one day they'll go and learn
how the farmer milks the cow.
The next day they'll go and
learn how cheese is made.
The next day--
So every day they
learn something new.
So they become one
day little internships
for the young children.
Then they become
two day internships.
Then they become three day,
four day, a week internship.
By the time a child
is 10 or 12 years old,
they become maybe a month
internship or two week
internships.
You learn everything from
the basic farming stuff
to woodwork to welding
to mechanical stuff
to electronic stuff to rocket
science to nuclear science
to you name it.
You will do that internship.
>>REGINA: And there
are sort of examples
of this that are
going on right now.
You and I talked
about this off camera.
There is a school,
a model for this.
Have you read the
Anastasia series of books?
>>TELLINGER: I
haven't read them all.
But I'm familiar
with the content.
>>REGINA: So-- but we've
talked about this off camera.
We were talking
about a school they
have there, in which the
kids learn in this way.
They learn in blocks, where
there are no teachers.
A teacher is only for reference.
But it is really the
children themselves
that ask the
questions and discover
the answers among themselves.
Only if they've come to the
point where there are either
no more questions or they can't
figure out the last answer
is an adult even brought
into the equation.
And this is in Russia.
This is an amazingly lit
up group of individuals.
>>TELLINGER: I think what
you're talking about there
and I really highly recommend
for every one of your viewers
to try and find this,
the documentary is just
called School.
I don't know where you would
find it, but it's phenomenal.
It's this Russian school that
has completely broken down
all the boundaries
of the way we teach.
And the children write the same
exams as all the other schools,
and they pass them
with flying colors.
>>REGINA: Flying colors.
It might be a 12-year-old is
the genius in the physics class,
for example.
And they explore it out
over a period of weeks
til they're done.
Then they go on to whatever
the next subject is.
>>TELLINGER: I saw in that
documentary, some of the kids
write three years in one year.
And they finish high school,
and they're 13 years old.
>>REGINA: And they're developed
on all levels, including
artistically.
They are the ones that provide
the artwork for the schools.
They build the school,
for that matter.
>>TELLINGER: Yes,
they do the building,
the fixing, the everything.
So it's a great
model, I believe,
for an interim phase,
definitely an interim phase.
>>REGINA: But it's
still a school.
>>REGINA: It's still a school.
It's still a school.
It's an interim phase.
And there will be
rudimentary classrooms,
if you want to call them that,
gathering places, where they
will gather and exchange
information and knowledge
and experience and learn
other things, where you
have to watch
somebody do things.
So yes, of course, there'll
still be classrooms,
if you want to call them
that, but not the way
we think of them
today with a board
and a teacher
there with a stick.
And if you don't do something
right, you get whacked.
And we used to get caned
when I was at school.
Six of the best and
all that kind of stuff.
If you can't regurgitate
it correctly,
you're going to fail.
You're useless to society.
See, those are the lies and
the levels of hierarchy.
If you can't regurgitate that,
you're useless to society.
What kind of education
system is that?
It is completely perverting
the natural order
of things, where people
use their God-given talents
for the benefit of
those around them.
>>REGINA: Well, in
the system you're
talking about, by the
time the child has gone
through a lot of these basics,
their own innate talents
and skills are
beginning to surface.
>>TELLINGER: By the time
a child is 12 years old,
they will know exactly what they
want to do for their community.
>>REGINA: Can you imagine that?
I can't even tell you
how many of my adult
friends still don't
know what they
want to do with their
lives because they never
had the luxury of looking at it.
>>TELLINGER: Yes.
So let's just
quickly recap that.
So the children go through
these mini internships,
these little workshops.
And they get longer and longer
the older the children get.
And they get excited.
These things are exciting.
And they stay exciting
because you're not
cramming it into them.
You're not forcing them to
do it for extended periods,
for one year learning
maths and physics that you
go, why am I
learning this stuff?
For what?
>>REGINA: Algebra.
>>TELLINGER: Exactly.
Algebra.
You're going to do it, and
you're going to apply it.
So when somebody says, well,
actually that's algebra,
and it works like this,
now you understand.
How do lenses in cameras work
that can focus in and out?
You'll find that fascinating.
Some people will want
to stay with that
and explore that and turn
it into a whole new science,
while others will want to go on
developing new types of cheese.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
In fact, I had that experience.
I was awful at math in
school, and partially
because I couldn't see
the reason behind it.
If no one could
explain why I needed
to do this, besides to
balance a checkbook,
back to the same problem, then
I wasn't really particularly
motivated, and not a very
good student as a result.
It was really far
later, when my son, who
went through the Waldorf
School, which is in that
school very oriented toward
planting your own seeds
and harvesting them in the
fall and making your own bread
and sheering sheep,
and it was really
a pastoral existence for him.
But he was taught the
wherefore and the why
behind the various maths.
And I said, I'm embarrassed
to say this, honey,
but maybe you could
teach me a little bit
of trigonometry and such.
Of course, you can
learn it in an instant
once you understand
the point behind it.
And that's the thing.
We are not taught in that way.
There's no wholeness
to our education.
So as you say, the
natural brilliance
can rise right out
of an individual
at a very early
age in this system.
>>TELLINGER: I see
this as so beautifully,
naturally progresses from one
area to the next to the next
until--
You can imagine by
the time you're 16,
and in my model at the age of
16 you finish this process.
At which point, you
would have probably
undergone a few three to six
month internships between 14
and 16 because by then
you pretty much know
what your real passions
and areas of focus are.
>>REGINA: Now, you're moving
into a serious internship,
an apprenticeship.
>>TELLINGER: Yes,
apprenticeship.
Exactly.
And by the time
you're 16, you can
imagine you've done everything
you can imagine, everything.
You'll know how to milk a cow.
You'll know how to build a
rocket, how to put together
silicon chips to store
memory in a computer.
You'll know everything.
There's nobody in the world
that has that kind of foundation
of knowledge or
information or skills.
It's completely
alien to us today.
Most of us don't know
how electricity works,
why it comes through there
and how it lights up lights.
>>REGINA: It's magic.
>>TELLINGER: It's just magic.
It just works.
>>REGINA: OK.
So I think we can see.
I mean, for a child,
can you imagine?
Every single child would be
engaged in their own life
under a system like this,
I mean, theoretically.
So now, in this wonderful
theoretical world
we're talking about--
We only have a couple
of minutes left.
--the reality is
we're likely coming up
for some more bumps
economically globally.
That puts us into a
greater state of fear.
How would you recommend--
Because we're going to have
crossover points, and people
are doing things
like time banking.
They're doing
things like barter.
They're doing all
of the interim steps
that you mentioned before.
What is your recommendation,
in two minutes or less,
of where we can
start in our hearts
and by agreement with each
other now to begin implementing
this kind of vision
for our world?
>>TELLINGER: First of all,
start sharing all your knowledge
and information with
others, especially if you
have any knowledge
regarding to free energy.
That'll free humanity
up in an instant.
Look at small town
communities, where
you can become an integral
value to developing
a self-sustainable and
sustained small community that
can have all these things
that we spoke about,
the fundamentals that then can
move on to the next levels.
And it will probably
go through a system
like time banking, barter and
trade, in the first few phases.
>>REGINA: All good
interim steps.
>>TELLINGER: Absolutely.
Eventually, to the
point where you
realize money is not needed.
And it's really important to
think about this right now
because we might be thrust into
this through external forces.
So we have to start thinking
about a moneyless society,
where we work together as
a united community, united
species.
In unity consciousness,
this is what it's all about.
>>REGINA: I agree.
And not only that,
I would like to be
the baker in your community.
Well, the interviewer
and the baker
in your community,
and the dancer.
That's the funny thing.
Once you start looking
at it you realize,
actually, I love
all kinds of things.
I just haven't had
the time or energy
to even think about
it because I've
been so tired trying
to make a buck.
And that is the story.
And Michael, I want
to thank you so much.
I think you've painted a
beautiful picture for people
of what our world not
only can but, I believe,
will be like in the future.
>>TELLINGER: Thanks, Regina.
>>REGINA: If you'd like
to know more about Ubuntu,
you can go to Michael's website
at michaeltellinger.com.
Until next time, thank you
for joining us at Gaiam TV.